Hey everyone, I'm Chris Crowe, campus pastor for Crossway Christian Church's Milford campus here in Southern New Hampshire, where our mission is all about practicing the way of Jesus together as we pursue God, build community, and unleash compassion.
We pray that what you hear today will help you experience God more deeply and live more and more like Jesus.
Let's take our bibles.
I want to do the tightest first and then we'll go to Luke one, but we're going to read an Advent verse.
It might be a verse that you're not familiar with when it comes to Advent, but I would like to read it together out loud.
Titus chapter three, that's in our Old Testament.
Just checking, just checking.
I'm going to read these out loud together with you and then have our brother Tom Cain come up and light what is known as the angel candle, the angel candle.
And so we're into our fourth week of Advent.
And it's been a wonderful journey together, amen?
Just want to say real quick before we read Titus chapter 3 verses 4 and 5.
That's Titus 3, 4, and 5.
And then we'll go over to Luke chapter 1.
That'll be our text for this morning.
That, O come, O come, Emmanuel is a phenomenal song.
Just a great selection, Luke, and the team to sing worship.
O come, O come, Emmanuel.
has been done most recently by one of my favorite bands, Skillet.
Are you familiar with Skillet?
Oh, boy.
You're going to YouTube that and judge me after.
It's one of my favorite bands.
And so they do this song, O Come, O Come, Emanuel.
And it's just wonderfully done, powerful message.
And then it kicks in.
And that's where it's going to cause you to kind of go into a seizure or something.
because it's hardcore.
And so the reason why he's doing that, John Cooper's doing that in the team, is because the incarnation is so powerful.
The incarnation of Jesus becoming man and coming down, the intensity of that.
So I would encourage you to YouTube it.
And then I hope you're blessed by it.
It's going to be a different kind of blessing.
You know that, right?
You'll see what I'm talking about.
Titus chapter 3, this is a great couple of verses here, 3, 4, and 5.
Can we read these out loud together?
Begin.
But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, He saved us not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to His own mercy by the washing of regeneration and the renewal of the Holy Spirit, whom He poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior.
We're talking about the love.
We're talking about angels today.
We're talking about a message that was delivered through an angel.
And so, Lord, we pray in Jesus' mighty name that you would take your word, Holy Spirit, that you would bring it home.
It's just not land in our brain, not just land as knowledge in our head, but may it be transformative inside of our lives, Lord.
May there be application of the word of God always.
And so as we look into the text of Scripture today, we pray that it just does something to us.
Move us, Lord.
Inspire us.
Change us.
Humble us.
Make us more holy.
Help us to be more reverent.
Help us to be worshipers.
And we just say that we love you.
You loved us.
Jesus, you came to earth.
You incarnated.
You became flesh.
What an amazing, amazing thing.
Bless this time in the Word of God.
In Jesus' name.
Amen.
You can't be on your phone looking at skill right now.
Some of you, I can see especially the younger ones are pulling up skillet on their phone.
Not yet.
All right, let's go to Luke chapter one.
I want to look at verses 26 down to verse 28 with you.
Just love scripture.
Don't you love the word of God?
I hope that you have a copy of it.
People have asked me what version are you using.
I'm using the ESV version, English standard version.
Someone else was using I think a new American standard, and it was a little bit different But that's a solid version new American standard very solid Probably it's very close to the originals of Greek and Hebrews you can get is the new American standard very good But if it's easier to follow along EESV would be a version maybe you want to pick up for Christmas ask ask your Person who buys you presents.
Let's just put it like that To get you in the ESV version
In 1862 James Chadwick rewrote a French hymn into what would become angels we have heard on high.
It's a narration of the Gospel of Luke about the birth of Christ.
And you remember the scene, there were shepherds out in their field keeping watch by night and an angel of the Lord appeared to them and the glory of the Lord shone around them and they were filled with great fear and the angel said to them,
Fear not for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all people.
Frontier you is born this day in the city of David, a Savior who is Christ the Lord.
Who was the angel?
No, no, no, not Clarence.
Gabriel.
It was Gabriel.
Luke chapter one verse 26 down to verse 38.
In the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth.
to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph of the house of David.
And the virgin's name was who?
Mary.
And he came to her and said, greetings, O favored one, the Lord is with you.
But she was greatly troubled at the saying and tried to discern, keep that word in mind, tried to discern what sort of greeting this might be.
And the angel said to her, do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God.
And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, Jesus.
Jesus, what a wonderful name, Jesus, right?
And he will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father, David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there shall be no end.
And Mary said to the angel, how can these things be, or how will these things be since I am a virgin?
And the angel said to her, the Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you, therefore the child will be born, will be called Holy, the Son of God.
And behold, your relative Elizabeth in her old age has also conceived a son.
And this is the sixth month with her who is called barren for nothing will be impossible with God.
And Mary said, behold, I am your servant.
I am the servant of the Lord.
Let it be to me according to your word.
And the angel departed from her.
Talk about some news.
This is known as the enunciation of the incarnation.
Now John's going to come back at the end of the service and give announcements.
but his announcements will pale in comparison to the annunciation or the announcement of what Gabriel says here in our text.
Now this is an amazing situation here that's being conveyed through the angel Gabriel.
First century readers would have been perplexed as they were reading this because Gabriel bypasses Judea and goes to Galilee.
Now you just don't do something like that in the mind of a first century reader.
You don't bypass Jerusalem and go to Nazareth.
The non-place is what they refer to Nazareth as.
The non-place.
All right, let me do a little trivia with you.
Are you ready?
For those who think they know this country pretty well.
You tell me what state can do is in.
That's the town.
Can do.
What state is that?
Don't look it up on your phone or Google it.
That's in where?
No, that's in North Dakota.
A non-place.
Now, if you're from Can Do, I apologize ahead of time.
Or if you have a relative, you're going for Christmas to can do in North Dakota, then I apologize for that.
But this is how they looked at this.
I mean, there's an announcement, the enunciation of a Messiah coming.
Jesus is coming in human form and bypassing Judea and bypassing going into Galilee and bypassing Jerusalem, which is the city of God since the very beginning.
And now they're going to go to a town called Nazareth, a non-place into Bethlehem.
I mean, that was just unbelievable to them, unbelievable.
Let's talk about this enunciation.
I've titled this message in this series, angels we have heard on high, reclaiming our spiritual discernment.
That's the name of this message, the title.
Are you ready?
We've looked at the waiting with King Ahaz and how he needed to wait for the Lord, but didn't, made an alliance with Assyria.
And of course, all of that just fell apart for him.
You don't do that.
You don't make an alliance with the world.
You don't make an alliance with the enemy.
We just stay faithful to God.
We wait on God.
Of course, Jesus would be prophesied in Isaiah chapter 9, 7, 14, and 9, 6.
And it's all about Jesus coming eventually if he would have only waited.
But he didn't do that.
And so the encouragement to you and I is to wait upon the Lord.
Wait upon the Lord.
That was message number one.
And then we saw the anointing with Joseph and Mary.
And how the favor of God needs to be on our home, needs to be on our lives.
That God's hand is the thing that you want more than anything.
God, put your hand on my life.
I need you to anoint me.
I need you to baptize me.
However way you want to put that.
I believe it's all the same.
You want a baptism of the Holy Spirit?
You want the Holy Ghost to fall on you?
Then you ask for that.
You ask for God's Spirit to pour out on you and to fill you and to move upon you and to control you, possess you even.
You can use all of those words and I think you're gonna fall right in biblical parameters with all of that.
Joseph and Mary had the anointing.
Do you have the anointing?
Does your family have the anointing?
That was message number two.
Then we looked at the welcoming and that was the innkeeper and the landlord and we're going to welcome Jesus into places of our life that maybe we have excluded away from him.
Right?
Somebody come up to me this past week and they were talking about that.
There are some things in my life.
There are places in my home, places in my thoughts, places in my life that I haven't welcomed Jesus into completely.
Maybe you need to do some of that today too.
Now we're going to look at the reclaiming.
We're going to look at number four, the reclaiming with Gabriel and Mary.
Let me ask you a question.
Do you believe in angels?
Yes or no?
Oh, I know.
You were called an angel.
Your mom and dad called you a little angel when you were young.
I'm not talking about that.
Some of you were called little devils.
Maybe who knows?
But anyway, we believe in angels.
Now there's been a resurgence, you would call it, maybe in recent decades, recent years of angels and the fascination with angels.
I remember, and you'll see some images on the screen.
Do you remember the TV show Touched by an Angel?
Remember that?
Wasn't that wonderful?
And then Highway to Heaven.
And then there was a movie, Angels in the Outfield, right?
One of my favorite bands, years and years ago on as a youth pastor, was a group called Newsboys.
You remember Newsboys?
And their song, what?
entertaining angels.
Remember that?
You don't.
Okay.
I'm up here alone.
All right.
That's okay.
The only two names given to, that we know are manifesting in name form, in scripture.
There's only two.
Gabriel and Michael.
We're going to look at Gabriel.
This is what we're going to look at today.
Now to believe in angels in the realm beyond just the physical and what we see with our eyes and here with our ears, we need to believe in the supernatural.
We need to believe in another realm.
Stay with me on this.
To believe in the miraculous is really trying to make a comeback in the evangelicalism.
And this is where I have a whole lot of respect for our charismatic brothers and sisters.
Because I think early on they were tapping into some stuff that I didn't catch up on until many years later.
That there is miracles that still happen.
There is the supernatural that goes on.
Let me go a little bit of history channel with you on this.
That'll be a new phrase that we're gonna have.
You know, Chibani and all of that, right?
I go Greek on you, or if I go whole Testament on you, it's what?
Mots of all time, right?
Okay, when I go history on you, it's gonna be called history channel time.
Now, in my home, history channel doesn't come on too often.
It's more Hallmark, because my wife likes Hallmark, and so.
And I do too.
I do too.
But I love History Channel.
So let me go a little history on you and talk about the Enlightenment.
Let me talk about the 18th century just briefly.
And you had men like Voltaire and John Locke and some of these others that really landed in a realm of atheism.
Philosophers and all this enlightenment, these, you know, 100 years roughly of this movement of
skepticism and questioning things.
And there were some really brilliant things that were going on in the 18th century.
There really was some amazing things going on.
But as there was amazing things going on, there was also some really dark things happening as well because the enemy will counterattack anything that God is doing.
The Enlightenment had some good prose and it had some also very serious cons to it.
What ended up happening into the 19th century is something called higher criticism of the Bible.
Higher criticism.
And you had some theologians.
You had some people that claimed Christ.
I'm not going to judge their heart.
If you look at their life, you would probably go, really?
You know, because you're going to deny the infallibility of Scripture?
You're going to get to that place where Jesus isn't the son of God, that he wasn't divine anymore?
That's higher criticism.
A lot of that came from Europe.
You know, if you ever want to see where America is going to go, just watch what happens in Europe.
You want to see how dark it is over in Europe right now.
It's dark.
Well that's just coming here.
That's coming here as well and it's already starting and probably has been going on for decades now.
So you have this higher criticism of the Bible and what you had is that there were those who were then taking all of the miraculous and removing it from Scripture.
You know, and so the supernatural wasn't there.
If it wasn't understood by reason or rationalistic thinking, then it wasn't true.
So what you had is you had to split in evangelicalism.
You had theologians that were on both sides of the camp.
You had people that were on one side that were orthodox and they were splitting away from seminaries like Princeton.
If you go to Princeton now, you're talking about a very, very liberal theological stand on many, many things.
So you had Westminster Seminary in Philadelphia that broke away from Princeton because you had these men that were saying, wait a minute.
There are some things that we need to stand on that are true, and one of those, among many of those, were the miraculous, the supernatural.
So some of these men, very acclaimed men of God, wrote something called the fundamentals, which I have here.
And so this is what resulted from a lot of this higher criticism, getting into the church, split the church, and then you had people that were saying, wait a minute, we need to hold on to the miraculous.
So you have enlightenment, 18th century, 19th century, you have something moving into higher criticism of the Bible, and then you have all of what we're gonna look at today saying that didn't really happen like that.
We need the church and the Christian experience to reclaim what is known as discernment, discernment.
Proverbs 16, 21 says the wise heart is called discerning.
Proverbs 17, 24 says the discerning sets his face toward wisdom.
It's the ability to understand truth and error.
It's the ability to understand reality.
It's being able to move into a realm and understand how God is showing up or how he's not showing up.
It's being able to have eyes to see and ears to hear.
Isn't that what Jesus said often?
What do you mean by that?
You need to have higher levels of discernment, of this perception of reality that's around us, where God is moving and God is speaking and God is doing what only He can do.
Are you able to discern all of those things?
We're going to try to reclaim discernment.
It's understanding His presence that it's real and it's tangible, that God does still show up.
One of my favorite verses I think is in Jeremiah says, rend the heavens and come down.
Rend the heavens and come down, oh God.
Well, if God comes down right here right now, are you able to discern that?
Or are you stuck in a rationalistic thinking?
Are you stuck into I can figure this thing out?
Or you're going to explain things away.
Oh, that couldn't have been God.
You ever had somebody come up to your world and say, hey, listen, God did something and it's totally completely foreign to your experience.
You had never experienced this before.
And then you get into this whole judging thing.
And you're looking at them like they're cuckoo, right?
Well, maybe they're not.
Maybe that vision that they got was real.
Maybe that dream that they got was real.
Maybe that manifestation of something in the supernatural was real.
I think we need to be open to that.
Here's the verse in 1 Corinthians 2.14.
You'll see it up on the screen.
talking about discernment, the natural person.
Who's the natural person?
You talk to me.
Yeah, heathens or non-Christians, pagans, unbelievers.
Hey, you know what?
All of us were there one time, right?
I had a guy years ago who said to me, he goes, I've always been a Christian.
I'm like, can you explain that a little bit?
It's like you come out of the womb with Christians.
That would happen to you.
I didn't say quite like that, but I was thinking that.
Because nobody comes in by osmosis.
You repent of your sins.
You trust in Christ.
You humble yourself before the glory of the Lord and say, this isn't about my glory.
This is about the glory of God.
This guy seemed like he kind of slipped in somehow.
That doesn't happen like that.
Natural person.
Paul's talking here and he's talking about a non-Christian.
He goes, the natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God.
for they are folly to Him.
I remember those days where it was folly to me.
How did I figure all that out?
Because my IQ is really high?
No.
You didn't figure out the gospel.
God revealed the gospel to you.
God opened your blind eyes, and He turned your hard heart.
And He humbled you before Him.
And He says, now you're going to see.
You're gonna believe.
I'm gonna help you.
Can you bring that back up again?
Let me just go to the end of that real quick.
So good, such a good verse.
And he is not able, this person, to understand them because they are spiritually discerned.
How did Mary discern?
Because she was a lover of God.
She knew God, walked with God, was sensitive to his leading.
leaned into God, she could spiritually discern.
Now, when Gabriel shows up in the text, you can see that she's kind of like, what is happening here?
I mean, if you had an angel show up, would you not be a little bit moved?
Would you not be like, what is happening in my world right now?
She's human.
Now, what I want to do is look at three ways.
Let's look at some ways here.
Three ways to reclaim discernment.
Number one, stay familiar with what God has said.
There's number one, it's in verse 26 down to verse 28.
Stay familiar with what God has said.
Gabriel shows up in the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy.
This is how Luke opens up the section that we just read in the sixth month.
Why is this mentioned?
Mary is familiar with their cousin's reproach of not being able to have children.
Back in verse 24, it says, she kept herself hidden.
This is Elizabeth saying, thus says the Lord,
Thus the Lord has done, pardon me, for me in the days when He looked on me to take away my reproach from among the people."
Then down in verse 36, and behold, your relative Elizabeth, Gabriel says, in her old age has also conceived his son.
Who's the son?
Who's that gonna be?
John.
Yeah, John, John the Baptist.
And this is the sixth month with her who is called Barron.
For nothing will be impossible with God.
This is amazing because Mary's gonna need all of this revelation because all of this thing is happening so quickly
And so she's getting this word through Gabriel about her cousin Elizabeth, and nothing's going to be impossible.
She understood how barren she was.
She understood the stigma on top of her life, their life as a couple and as a person.
And so Gabriel's doing this.
Elizabeth hides herself until she comes out and says something like this.
It's just a wonderful, wonderful moment.
Mary's familiarity with what God has said goes way back, though, to prophecies concerning the coming Messiah.
She was very familiar with Isaiah 714.
Remember.
She's reading Isaiah 7.14.
Remember, she's in the synagogue.
She's with the people of God for years.
Now, she's probably 12 years old.
Some theologians say she's down around 12.
That's kind of the young Mary.
Even young, still is 14, where most evangelical and theologians land.
Imagine 14 years.
Okay, so she doesn't have a long time on planet Earth.
But 7, 8, 9, 10, she's in the synagogue.
She's being taught, Isaiah 7.14 is read, but hold a virgin.
And she's probably thinking thoughts like,
Wow, she's probably processing a lot.
It would have been in her mind for many years.
After Mary's encounter with her cousin, it said of her in verse 45, and blessed it is she who believed that there would be a fulfillment of what was spoken to her from the Lord.
The British preacher Charles Spurgeon, you might be familiar with him, one of the most amazing Christians and preachers the world has ever known.
They said if you cut Charles Spurgeon, his blood would be bublene.
It would be bublene.
That's what they called it.
He had so much of the Bible inside of him, it just flowed.
He was that familiar with what God has said.
Charles Feinberg, founder, professor and theologian from Talbot Seminary in Los Angeles, read the Bible cover to cover four times every year for all of his life.
Do you think Charles Feinberg was familiar with what God has said?
You asked some people today, some Christians that profess Jesus, John 3.16, and they're like, yeah, I think I know that verse.
For God so loved the world.
Be familiar with the word of God.
Stay familiar with what God has said.
I love this because when God gives a word, he'll never contradict the scripture.
And so I've had conversations with many of you and you say, well, God spoke to me and God is moving in my life in this particular way.
And then we talk about, you know, does this line up with the word of God?
And it lines up with the word of God because that's your greatest authority of scripture, right?
And God's still gonna speak this personal thing to us at times too.
And then you wanna just line that up with the word of God and not contradict it at all ever.
I love this.
I love when people wanna be familiar when they're hungry for the word of God.
I hope you have a copy in front of you, either on phone or hard copy.
I hope you do.
And remember when I first got born again, my college roommates were very excited.
I was at Liberty University.
Got born again at a Christian school.
Can you believe that?
It wasn't really saved.
That's why you can think you're a Christian, make a false profession, not really be a Christian.
Because I understood that world.
I went to Liberty thinking I was born again.
And then when I got there, I started hearing the gospel, started hearing some strong preaching, some great preachers from all over the world would come to Liberty, and I'm sitting underneath all of that.
And the Lord saved me one day.
He saved me truly and completely and thoroughly.
It was in chapel.
And I remember sitting up in the nosebleed section.
I'd sit way in the back.
Any back row people?
Back row Baptists, right?
Liberty was a Baptist school at the time.
Anyway, I'm way in the back, you know, and everybody's getting naps up there.
That's where everybody would sleep, by the way.
I mean, everybody, you look around, everybody's sleeping, getting a nap, and I'm like, okay, well, the word of God went out powerfully, and the Lord on that day saved me, and I walked in front of 5,000 people.
And I said, I don't care, Lord, I'm just gonna, I'm gonna get saved.
I need you, Jesus, I need to be born again.
I came back to my dorm room, and I had three other roommates.
We had four in a room at the time.
The other three, one of them's names, Keith, and Keith gave me his Bible.
He goes, I want you to have my,
My Bible was about this size, but it was red.
It was King James, you know, the old King James of these and vows.
That's a little bit rough to try to read that, right?
And I was like, I'll try my best.
But anyway, I would sleep with that Bible.
I mean, I'm a college guy at the time, you know, just lifting weights and doing all that kind of thing.
And I didn't care at that moment.
I didn't care how foolish I looked.
All I wanted to know is what does the Bible have to say?
What does the Word of God have to say?
And I so loved it, I just laid it on my chest and I would go to sleep with it.
That old King James Bible.
Here's how you get discernment.
Here's how you reclaim it.
Be familiar with the word of God.
Get real familiar with it.
Amen?
Number two, what else do we see?
Number two, seek to be on the right frequency with God.
Oh, this is interesting.
Hold on here.
Verse 29 down to verse 23, seek to be on the right frequency with God.
I like what AJ Sherrill said in his book, Rediscovering Christmas.
And you'll see this on the screen.
I just want to quote from him.
It's a very interesting quote.
If you could bring that up, notice what he says here.
It's so good.
And this is the book that we're basing the series on.
I wonder if the kingdom of God is like a frequency that some people tap into while others are not.
Jesus seemingly operated at a deeper level of connection with the Father than those
that did around him.
Jesus is aware of hidden dimensions of reality that are ever present and available.
I wonder about this.
I asked somebody one time, and they looked at me like I had just lost it.
Chris is gone.
There he goes.
He's gone.
I said to my friend, and I was a new Christian at the time, I said, is it possible to hear into heaven?
I was hungry.
I want to learn.
I want to grow.
I want to ask questions.
And I asked him, do you think I could hear into heaven?
He goes, oh, boy, I don't know about that.
I think you're just kind of moving over into a realm that you might not want to move over into.
I wonder what AJ is up to with a quote like this.
I don't disagree with him.
I love that quote.
If you could bring up the next, I mean, think about this.
I'm going to date myself some images here.
Do you remember the old radios?
I mean, like years ago.
Now, I didn't really listen to the radio much.
And so I got a vintage radio there.
I'm not sure when that dates, probably in the 1950s or so.
That was before I was born.
But there are people that gathered around radios, and they would tune those radios in, trying to get that right frequency so that they could get the news or whatever's happening in the world, right?
Anybody remember that?
You're going to have to be about 110.
I'm just kidding.
Now, okay, so let's move on to the next image.
That's a little bit more relevant to where I was at if you could bring that up.
No, notice the next one.
It's a TV.
You got to bring it back.
This is unbelievable.
This is a TV on the right.
That is actually a real TV.
And so when I was growing up, you had to get off of the couch and actually go and turn the channel.
Does anybody remember that?
And then I have two brothers who are like, oh, can you turn the channel?
No, you turn the channel.
We're just sitting on the couch in the beanbag chairs.
And now it's just like, good, clean.
But anyway, on that day, I mean, back in those days, you would have static and you would have to take those
called rabid ears and tenets, and you would move them to get into the right frequency so you can see the picture clearly.
Yeah, that worked perfect.
Perfect.
So it's like, this is the same thing spiritually.
What frequency?
God's on a frequency, right?
And we're trying to tune into that.
This is what Mary's doing.
I'll show you in the text.
Mary's trying to tune into what God is saying, what God is doing.
He's going to call us to do the same thing.
There are a lot of Christians that are in completely different frequencies.
God is on one, they're operating on another.
I said this before, make sure that spaces are thin.
Not broad.
Thin spaces.
There is a realm happening right now.
If you can make that space as thin as you can, you'll be able to see, hear things in the supernatural that you may not have ever seen or heard before.
There's a movie that's called Frequency, and I watched it again yesterday, Dennis Quaid and Jim Caviesal.
Both of these men now confess Christ.
Back 21 years ago, I think when this movie was made, I don't know if they were at that time in Christ, but I'm loving at the fact that Jim Caviesal claims Jesus, and so doesn't Dennis Quaid.
I watched it again yesterday.
I saw it many years ago.
Fascinating movie.
30 years apart, Father, Son, 30 years apart, and they're communicating through a ham radio.
And you have to try to figure out because they're going to solve a murder mystery together.
It's just really wild.
I love that kind of movie.
You guys might be like, ah, it doesn't sound too interesting.
If you watch it, just can I just warn you they use the Lord's name in vain once, which I don't like that ever.
And I'm like, dog, why do they have to do that?
A couple of few swears here and there just to kind of let you know.
But it's an interesting concept.
And I wonder, there's some spiritual undertones in the movie.
Here's Jim Caviezel, the son, trying to communicate to the father.
And you can see the desperation.
Because his dad had died.
I'm going to give it away to you, right?
His dad had died in a fire accident.
He was a fireman and he had died.
And then he gets in this connection with his father 30 years because they're both on this ham radio.
And then they figure out that, wait a minute, this is my dad and this is my son.
And you can see the young child that lost his father is now being healed in this movie.
There's a lot of stuff going on, good stuff.
And I wonder about you as a son or daughter of God.
And you just need to take those rabbit ears and just move them around a little bit.
Just get that frequency a little bit clear so that you can see the father.
The end of the movie is brilliant.
Can I just tell you?
Are you going to get mad at me?
Yeah, don't give it away.
All right.
Anyway, it's a good movie.
Watch it sometime.
AJ goes on and here's another part of his quote.
I like, when we tune our hearts, quiet our souls, and live with the story of scripture open before us, we can see and live at a deeper level of reality.
I want to live at a deeper level of reality.
I do.
Verse 29, it says here in the text, but when she was greatly troubled, Mary at the saying, being Gabriel, given that saying, that message, and tried to discern, there's our word, what sort of greeting this might be.
Interesting.
What troubled Mary, Gabriel showing up?
Well, in some ways, I don't think that was rocking her world.
I don't think that was it.
I mean, sometimes we think, oh, the angel shows up and she's just unbelievable beside herself.
I don't know if it's quite that.
I mean, it would shake her up a little bit if an angel showed up.
I would imagine.
Mary's trying to tune in to what God is saying, what the angel is saying, what the message is.
There's an encounter here, an angelic encounter that is phenomenal.
It's clear that her desire is to understand what's being said of her.
And she's trying to align herself with the revelation that's being spoken concerning her.
and what's going to happen as she gives birth to the Son of God.
Seeking the right frequency requires faith.
It requires leaning into the Lord and listening and trusting, trusting Him.
Listen, if you're doubting His hand in your life and you're saying, God, I just need the hand, your hand.
I just need to know that you're holding me.
Then if you can't quite get there yet, then trust His heart.
Mary trusts God's heart.
Mary's posturing herself in humility before God, and she's realizing that he is able.
And she's gonna receive this message.
It's a wonderful thing.
I'm gonna ask you a question.
Think of a time when the Lord was asking something of you.
How did you respond?
Did you slow down?
Did you get into a quiet space and seek His face?
Did you say, God, I just want these antennas.
I'm gonna move them around.
I'm going to do whatever is necessary so that I can see you and hear you, because I desperately need that right now.
Discernment is developed when we seek to know, when we ask God questions.
Have you asked God questions recently?
Anybody?
Has anybody asked God questions?
I'm asking you a question.
It's okay.
It's okay to ask God questions.
That's frequency.
You're trying to take it and tune it.
Mary does that.
Mary said to the angel, verse 34, it says it right there.
Mary said to the angel, Gabriel.
Let's look at a third and final.
How to reclaim spiritual discernment.
Submit to God first, verse 34 down to verse 38.
Submit to God first.
Quick and repetitive obedience develops discernment.
We see this in Mary's response to Gabriel.
How fast does it take us to do what God is asking of us when he asks us?
He's gonna ask you to do something.
Like this week, are you gonna take a month to do it?
Or are you gonna do it right away?
Mary does it like right away.
This is amazing.
This is showing something about Mary's development spiritually about her discernment.
And she's only maybe 12.
We land on some of the theologians say 12 or if it's 14, whether it's 14, think about a 14 year old trying to discern spiritual realities and heavy things of God and having these encounters.
And she's so quick to respond.
It says in verse 38, Mary said, behold, I am the servant of the Lord.
Let it be to me according to your word.
This is unbelievable.
She uses the word servant, meaning slave.
Paul uses it as a bond servant.
Her life was lived under the Lordship of God.
Mary wastes no time acknowledging her glad submission to God.
Her discernment led her to greater obedience and blessing.
The King James, I'm gonna take this verse out of the King James that says, behold the handmaid of the Lord.
That's what that word is, the handmaid.
What that means is I am fully, I fully credit all that is said and am perfectly ready to obey all the commands of the Lord.
Isn't that good?
Can we do that with our lives?
I fully accredit all that God has said to me.
He speaks to me.
I know he's speaking to me.
And I am perfectly ready to obey all of the commands of the Lord.
What's he gonna say to you today?
What's he gonna ask you to do?
How do you reclaim discernment?
Here's how you do it.
You obey, you submit to God first.
If God speaks to you, and he will,
Submit to them.
So Mary does all of this.
Verse 42, Elizabeth says to Mary, blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb.
Oh, quick obedience reclaims discernment.
You develop discernment, the quicker you obey, faster, faster.
Verse 48 in her Magnificat, it's called, all generations will call me blessed, she says of herself.
Gabriel departs when Mary makes this glad submission to the message he came to give.
Verse 38, the angel departed from her.
Mission accomplished, Gabriel did it.
Mary responded.
Amazing.
Here's the application points as we close.
They're in the text, they're in the outline itself.
We stay, we seek, and we submit.
As we stay familiar with the word of God, discernment grows.
As we seek to get on the same frequency with God, discernment grows.
And as we submit first to God, discernment grows.
This is how it happens.
Read The Sovereign Christmas is about this.
Waiting, wait on the Lord.
Don't make an alliance.
Don't be like Ahas.
Trust the Lord is coming.
Trust that he's gonna show up in your life.
Wait for him.
Number two, this is how it is, anointing, the favor of God.
You want the hand of God on your life.
Number three, welcome him into every part of your life.
Don't put a no vacancy sign on this one part that you're saying, oh, Jesus, no, no, no, no, that's for me.
You don't do that.
And then reclaiming, reclaim discernment, Mary's life was one of spiritual realities and counters that are to be our realities.
Don't look at Mary and go, it was exclusive for Mary.
Now I'm not gonna say you're gonna get the exact same message and mission, that's obvious.
But the encounter with the supernatural and with the spirituals for every believer, you take any rationalistic thinking, anything that the enemy has put into your head and you try to explain things away, you say all that couldn't happen, you don't want that in your head.
Nothing is impossible with God, amen?
Nothing is impossible with God.
God can still heal a person.
They can take that, he can take that brain tumor and remove it out of somebody's head.
You're saying, well, wait a minute doctors and yeah, yeah God uses all of that.
How about that lost boy, that lost girl in your life, son or daughter.
They don't care about Jesus.
Don't let rationalistic thinking, well they just won't believe.
You don't know how hard their heart is.
I don't care how hard their heart is.
The gospel can change all of that.
You got to hold on to that.
God is trying to see if you have faith.
He's trying to see if you will believe.
He's trying to watch your life like Mary's.
Let's reclaim our discernment.
God will reveal His presence to us and His purposes.
I don't want to just talk about presence, Luke.
Luke and I talk about this a lot.
I don't want to just talk about presence.
I want to experience God's presence.
I want to know where He walks and how He walks.
I don't want to know when He touches my shoulder.
I want to know when He speaks into my voice, in my head.
I want to know when He's moving mightily.
I want to be able to discern all of that.
What causes discernment to be hindered?
I'm going to tell just one more thing and I'm just getting this right now.
Sin.
Sin will hinder all of this.
Don't let any sin in your life.
I've let too many in my heart in my life, in my mind, out of my mouth, with my hands.
The more that all gets cleaned up, the more that gets confessed, repented of, forsaken, fleed from, the more discernment increases in my life, the more I sense and see the presence of God, the more I experience Him.
What sin needs to be confessed here.
Not out loud.
You take it to the Lord.
What is it?
Pride?
Lust, unkindness, cruelty, anger, bitterness, revenge.
I don't know.
Let's reclaim our discernment.
Amen.
Jesus, we love you.
We thank you, Lord.
You are the greatest.
There is no one greater than you.
There is no other God.
You are truly L.L.
Leon, the God who is most high.
And we exalt you.
We lift you up.
We unashamedly adore you, unashamedly.
We're bold in our proclamation, in our declaration that you are the king.
There is no other king.
There is no other God.
You are the greatest.
Would you just help us to reclaim discernment?
Give us eyes to see and ears to hear.
Take us further than we've ever been, like Mary.
Some great things were happening in this text.
Gabriel was speaking the truth of God, the revelation of God and she received it.
What are you going to speak to us right now, Lord?
What is it during this song?
After church this week, whatever it is, help us to listen.
Help us to know.
Truth from error, right and wrong.
What's in the Bible, what's not.
How the enemy's working.
Give us the great discernment there.
We don't want to be tricked.
We don't want to be schemed.
We don't want the wily one to have victory over anything.
We need discernment.
We're reclaiming it today.
Thank you, Lord.
We love you.
Can we just say that?
Love you, Jesus.
Love you, Lord.
We love you, Lord.
Hallelujah.
You are loved.
Thanks for listening to the Crossway Christian Church's Milford Campus Service Podcast.
If you'd like to plug into the life of our community or have any questions that we might be able to answer, visit our website at crosswaycc.org to connect with us.
Until next time, we can be with you.
May the Lord bless you and keep you.